올
Good morning. Everything has its beginning in thought. The invasion of Kuwait first began
in the mind of Saddam Hussein. And people everywhere have been horrified, and rightly
so, at the subsequent violence and terror and the dehumanizing atrocities inflicted
on the Kuwaiti people. And while we may remind ourselves that violence, murder, rape and
plunder occur in the towns and cities of Britain and America, even in peacetime, it makes the
agony of Kuwait no less horrifying. But no doubt it's also true that there were many
kindnesses shown by Iraqis to people in Kuwait. Some, not all, of the hostages who returned to
this country before Christmas had such favorable stories to tell. It's sometimes forgotten that
Jesus lived the whole of his life on this earth in an occupied country. He never experienced freedom
and independence from the rule and yoke of the occupying power. We know that power could be brutal
and ruthless, especially when its law and authority were questioned. We also know that
individual Romans could show considerable kindness and consideration to the Jewish people. Now the
Jews were fervent nationalists. The presence of the Romans was not only an affront to their nation,
but also an insult to their God. It is then of interest how Jesus, a Jew, responded. What was
his thinking in this situation? Jesus advocated neither appeasement nor violence, but rather the
use of a positive spirit that would radically change the whole situation. If the Roman soldier
commands you to carry his kit for one mile, as the law entitled him to do, carry it for two miles.
Many of his contemporaries advocated the overthrow of Rome by violence. We know that violence did
break out from time to time and that Jesus made enemies because he refused to be associated with
the terrorists. Less than a week before his crucifixion, he wept over Jerusalem, saying
that the way of violence could only bring about the destruction of the city and widespread misery
to its people. And all because, he said, you do not understand the things that make for peace.
In 70 A.D., Jerusalem was destroyed. Have we yet learned the things that make for peace? Well,
it's a thought.